From: Paul-Olivier Dehaye
To: legal@coursera.org
Subject: Access and Notice under US-EU Safe Harbor as Coursera instructor

Dear Coursera Representative,

My name is Paul-Olivier Dehaye, I am a Belgian citizen. I have accounts on the 
Coursera website associated to the email addresses xxxxxxxxxx@math.uzh.ch and 
xxxxxxxxxx@gmail.com . 

In June 2014, I have offered a course on the Coursera platform called "Massive 
Teaching: New Skills Required", which was meant to discuss online platforms for 
Massive Open Online Courses. The course intended to cover issues of data 
protection (particularly with an EU viewpoint), and also discuss leaked 
Coursera contracts. This course was unilaterally suspended half-way through, 
and my instructor account was blocked. The circumstances of those actions are 
not entirely clear to me. You can see the remnants of this course at [1]. 

Since January 2014, Coursera has agreed to comply to the self-regulatory data 
protection framework called US-EU Safe Harbor, to be enforced by the FTC [2, 
where I in fact found your email address]. This framework encompasses seven 
principles [3], and is meant to offer equivalent protection to the EU Directive 
on the Protection of Personal Data [4]. Two of those principles are Access and 
Notice. 

I would like to ask you for the following:

1. Under Access, I would like to get all the information associated to the 
deletion and moderation of my own posts (including method used, logic, and 
timing information) in my own course "Massive Teaching". I seek also to have 
information whether this moderation or deletion was automated, semi-automated 
or purely manual. 

2. Under Access, I would like to get any email internal to Coursera associated 
with that course. Since I was sole instructor, this is directly related to me, 
and thus falls under the "personal data" definition included in [3]. 

3. Under Access, I would like to get any email associated with that course that 
has been exchanged between Coursera and non-journalistic external parties (for 
instance, members of its Advisory Board or employees of the University of 
Zurich). Again, since I was sole instructor, this is directly related to me, 
and thus falls under the "personal data" definition included in [3].  

4. Under Notice, please inform me of any data that might have been collected or 
computed about me. This includes any of the hundreds of A/B tests that I might 
have unknowingly participated in, as an instructor on the platform, either at 
the time of collection or later on. Under Notice, please also inform me of the 
logic followed to decide whether to include me or not in those experiments. 
This would include information about the ethical protocols followed by Coursera 
to decide whether and how to run this experimentation. This request also 
includes any information about the building of a "personality profile" [4], 
based on my interactions with the platform. 

5. Under Notice, please provide me with a listing of all the third parties that 
Coursera has shared or intends to share my data with, and the conditions that 
governed this transfer (a data policy, for instance). This would include 
confirmation or denial of any transfer or intent to transfer my data to law 
enforcement or intelligence services, confirmation or denial of any transfer or 
intent to transfer my data to for-profit or nonprofit universities, and 
confirmation or denial of any transfer or intent to transfer my data with 
potential investors or buyers of Coursera.

It is my understanding that Coursera has 40 days to comply with this request, 
which would bring us to January 4th 2016. Should you have any clarifying 
question, for instance about the scope of my requests, I would be happy to 
answer, but this would most likely eat into that time period. Should you fail 
to fully comply with this request within that time period, I reserve the right 
to use any or all possible avenues to exercise my rights.

Sincerely,

Paul-Olivier Dehaye

[1] https://www.coursera.org/course/massiveteaching
[2] https://safeharbor.export.gov/companyinfo.aspx?id=26126 (accessed Nov 24 
2015)
[3] http://export.gov/safeharbor/eu/eg_main_018475.asp (accessed Nov 24 2015)
[4] http://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=URISERV:l14012 (accessed 
Nov 24 2015)
